
Turn this into blog
  http://blog.payne.org/2011/11/06/the-gaaf-ecosystem/#disqus_thread

    Everybody is saying how China's Internet is the Wild East. Go East, young man!
    However, China also has Gorilla companies that are ready to copy innovative
    ideas. If anything, they are worse than their US cousins. The three biggest
    Chinese Internet companies started roughly at the same time, 10 years ago:
    Tencent (1999), Baidu (2000), Alibaba(1998). It may well be that the condition
    at the time allowed these companies to establish hegemony.

    The US companies you've cited are founded quite a few years apart. Facebook
    (2003). Google (1998). Apple (1976). Amazon (1994). Looking at history, it's
    arguable that they've created new markets, in which they dominated by virtue of
    having created it. While the Chinese hegemons simply captured markets that they
    know would/will exist (by looking West).

      ebay at the time thought they were transforming capitalism. By bidding, price would be efficient. Buyer gets the highest price, and seller gets the lowest price.
        Amazon, by contrast, is less exciting. It did not transform the way prices are set. It obsoletes brick and mortar stores.
          which turns out to be very very lucrative/successful.

    Microsoft leveraged the PC platform to kill off Netscape. No doubt that any
    individual company that threatens a hegemon and comes in its target would have a
    hard time succeeding. But even a hegemon like Microsoft could not prevent
    innovation fro happening. It killed off Netscape, but it didn't kill off the
    Internet. A hegemon seeks to protect its existing market, than to
    innovate. Microsoft wanted to protect the PC, not to capture Internet. That's
    the reason, and the irony, that innovation CAN happen under a hegemon's nose.

    In my opinion, it isn't so much that the GAAF are choking the space. It's that
    transformative innovation leaps are rare.

    {it is the information revolution. how man more years do we have?
      vs spread of iron
      vs spread of printing press
      vs adoption rate of modern technology
        PC
        internet
        iphone
        social network

     unless the government does something to prevent it [link to sopa], old companies are just going to keep dying. Where would the next transformation occur? Banking (qwolla? SimpleBank?) Government?

     If you want to challenge the App Store, you are too late. You need to change the game. Apple owns mobile. The App Store is just a derivative. How do you change computing? You cannot win mobile. You need to replace it with something else.

     Mobile is a form of ubiquitious computing. It is a personal computation
device. Maybe the way to go forward is to find the bigger trend, namely
ubiquitous and pervasive computation. What if you go from personal to public?
What if you don't even on an iphone? What if your computation device is the
whole world you interact with? You are constantly plugged in the world. When you
pick up a cup of coffee, you are computing.

     you cannot beat Apple by building a better phone. Throw away the phone.

     what if your personal computation device is embedded to a pair of contact
     lenses? what if instead of tapping an icon, you just think about tapping an icon.
     even modern neuroscience is capable of detecting gestural neuro signals.

     screw battery cars. how can driving itself be made obselete?


}

